feat(performance): Add `tracesSampleRate` and `tracesSampler` to JS docs (#2376)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/platforms/javascript/common/performance/automatic.mdx

> ---

Reviewer: Should this page be a subpage of the "Enabling" page?

Author: IMHO it's enough of a key idea to deserve its own entry in the sidebar. It's also slightly different than enabling the package. Enablement is "how do I turn it on," whereas both this and the corresponding "manual" page are more "okay, now that it's on, how do I use it?"

---

The `@sentry/tracing` package provides a `BrowserTracing` integration to add automatic instrumentation for monitoring the performance of browser applications. By default, this integration will create a new transaction for each pageload and navigation event, and will create a child span for every `XMLHttpRequest` or `fetch` request which occurs while those transactions are open.

To enable this automatic tracing, include the `BrowserTracing` integration in your SDK configuration options. (Note that when using ESM modules, the main `@sentry/*` import must come before the `@sentry/tracing` import.)

```javascript {tabTitle: ESM}
// If you're using one of our integration packages, like `@sentry/react` or `@sentry/angular`,
// substitute its name for `@sentry/browser` here
import * as Sentry from "@sentry/browser";
import { Integrations as TracingIntegrations } from "@sentry/tracing"; // Must import second

Sentry.init({
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___",

  integrations: [
    new Integrations.BrowserTracing({
      tracingOrigins: ["localhost", "my-site-url.com", /^\//],
      // ... other options
    }),
  ],

>   // Be sure to lower this in production, or use tracesSampler for finer control

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // We recommend adjusting this value in production, or using tracesSampler for finer control
```

  tracesSampleRate: 1.0,
});
```

```javascript {tabTitle: CDN}
Sentry.init({
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___",

  integrations: [
    new Sentry.Integrations.BrowserTracing({
      tracingOrigins: ["localhost", "my-site-url.com", /^\//],
      // ... other options
    }),
  ],

>   // Be sure to lower this in production, or use tracesSampler for finer control

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // We recommend adjusting this value in production, or using tracesSampler for finer control
```

  tracesSampleRate: 1.0,
});
```

After configuration, you should see both `pageload` and `navigation` transactions show up in your Sentry UI.

## Options

You can pass many different options to the `BrowserTracing` integration (as an object of the form `{optionName: value}`), but it comes with reasonable defaults out of the box. For all possible options, see [TypeDocs](https://getsentry.github.io/sentry-javascript/interfaces/tracing.browsertracingoptions.html).

### tracingOrigins

Usage:

```javascript
Sentry.init({
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
  integrations: [
    new Integrations.BrowserTracing({
      tracingOrigins: ["localhost", "my-site-url.com"],
    }),
  ],

>   // Be sure to lower this in production, or use tracesSampler for finer control

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // We recommend adjusting this value in production, or using tracesSampler for finer control
```

### beforeNavigate

For `pageload` and `navigation` transactions, the `BrowserTracing` integration uses the browser's `window.location` API to generate a transaction name. To customize the name of the `pageload` and `navigation` transactions, you can supply a `beforeNavigate` option to the `BrowserTracing` integration. This option allows you to modify the transaction name to make it more generic, so that, for example, transactions named `GET /users/12312012` and `GET /users/11212012` can both be renamed `GET /users/:userid`, so that they'll group together.

```javascript
import * as Sentry from "@sentry/browser";
import { Integrations } from "@sentry/tracing";

Sentry.init({
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
  integrations: [
    new Integrations.BrowserTracing({
      beforeNavigate: context => {
        return {
          ...context,
          // You could use your UI's routing library to find the matching
          // route template here. We don't have one right now, so do some basic
          // parameter replacements.
          name: location.pathname
            .replace(/\d+/g, "<digits>")
            .replace(/[a-f0-9]{32}/g, "<hash>"),
        };
      },
    }),
  ],

>   // Be sure to lower this in production, or use tracesSampler for finer control

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // We recommend adjusting this value in production, or using tracesSampler for finer control
```

  tracesSampleRate: 1.0,
});
```

### shouldCreateSpanForRequest

> This function can be used to filter our unwanted Spans like XHR's running health checks or something similar. By default `shouldCreateSpanForRequest` is already filtering out what was defined in `tracingOrigins`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This function can be used to filter our unwanted Spans, such as XHR's running health checks or something similar. By default `shouldCreateSpanForRequest` is already filtering out what was defined in `tracingOrigins`.
```

```javascript
import * as Sentry from "@sentry/browser";
import { Integrations } from "@sentry/tracing";
Sentry.init({
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
  integrations: [
    new Integrations.BrowserTracing({
      shouldCreateSpanForRequest: url => {
        // Example of filter out spans that contain `health`
        if (url.match(/health/)) {
          return false;
        }
        return true;
      },
    }),
  ],

>   // Be sure to lower this in production, or use tracesSampler for finer control

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // We recommend adjusting this value in production, or using tracesSampler for finer control
```

import { Integrations } from "@sentry/tracing";

Sentry.init({
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
  integrations: [
    new Integrations.BrowserTracing({
      beforeNavigate: context => {
        return {
          ...context,
          // You could use your UI's routing library to find the matching
          // route template here. We don't have one right now, so do some basic
          // parameter replacements.
          name: location.pathname
            .replace(/\d+/g, "<digits>")
            .replace(/[a-f0-9]{32}/g, "<hash>"),
        };
      },
    }),
  ],

  // We recommend adjusting this value in production, or using tracesSampler
  // for finer control
  tracesSampleRate: 1.0,
});
```

### shouldCreateSpanForRequest

This function can be used to filter our unwanted Spans like XHR's running health checks or something similar. By default `shouldCreateSpanForRequest` is already filtering out what was defined in `tracingOrigins`.

```javascript
import * as Sentry from "@sentry/browser";
import { Integrations } from "@sentry/tracing";
Sentry.init({
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
  integrations: [
    new Integrations.BrowserTracing({
      shouldCreateSpanForRequest: url => {

>         // Example of filter out spans that contain `health`
>         if (url.match(/health/)) {
>           return false;
>         }
>         return true;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        // Do not create spans for outgoing requests to a `/health/` endpoint
        return !url.match(/\/health\/?$/);
```

Author: Yeah - the other parts (the ones I didn't touch) def need some love. But thanks for catching this in the meantime.
